I finally got access to grock 3 so I
wanted to show you exactly what it could
do in this video they have some really
useful options with grock 3 like deep
search and a reasoning model that I
wanted to show you it's currently
available inside of x.com but you do
need a premium subscription so you do
have to pay for it in order to get
access to it once you do pay for that
subscription you'll see this little
grock icon and here's the pricing right
now so for the monthly fee of $8 you
will get Gro and this is the one I have
right now which removes ads and some
other things that come with x.com and
you could also use grock 3 at gro.com
again you do need to sign up for the
premium and use that to log into an
account here and then you'll have access
to grock 3 over here with deep search
and reasoning model too now just to give
you a quick background on grock 3 this
is obviously the third version of grock
which is the large language model from X
aai Elon musk's AI company and the
reason they were able to catch up so
fast is they built this data center here
in just 122 days they were able to get
100,000 gpus to fully train grock 3
they've recently expanded that to
200,000 gpus currently this is the
largest cluster of gpus to train large
language models in the world and earlier
chatbot Arena which is a website where
you'll see two answers from two
different models and choose the one
which you prefer and not see which model
it is before you vote grock 3 got the
highest score here it beat Gemini it
beat deeps R1 01 preview the latest 01
it beat every single model here but
we're going to go ahead and test that
out for ourselves okay the very first
thing I want to show you is it's writing
style by default without doing anything
to The Prompt so getting a 500w blog
post about the release of grock 3 and by
default this has access to the entire
x.com or the old Twitter database so it
will search that and it will search the
web you don't even have to turn on any
kind of search function that is already
its default anytime you're doing any
kind of research grock 3 is here x ai's
latest sleap in AI awesomeness so it
definitely has a more quirky and unique
kind of tone compared to any other
chatbot I've used big news tech fans as
of February 19 2025 xai has officially
unleash grock 3 into the wild that's the
default you could always tweak that with
how you give a prompt you could ask for
a different tone or a different writing
style or a different reading level but
this is kind of what you're going to get
out of default totally different sense
of humor than chat GPT gemini or really
any other model out there right now oh
this is interesting it says word count
500 on the dot okay let's find out if
that's true word count is 513 wow that's
actually shockingly close to what I
asked for they usually don't get it
anywhere near that kind of word count
now this has also multimodal
capabilities so not only could it see
inside of images with his vision
capabilities it could also generate
images so let me attach an image here
and then we'll go ahead and generate one
too I'm going to actually attach that
picture of that data center I showed you
and I'm going to ask it what it is it
has text it has an image here so the
image appears to be an aerial view of
the largest Data Center and super
Computing facility label as
Colossus 200k GPU that's correct okay so
that did its job but one thing I've
noticed lately is ever since I started
using it I've been seeing this message
sometimes we're seeing some heavy
traffic so we've opted to an alternative
model to get you answers faster let me
just see what does this mean okay right
here it says the system switches when it
has a lot of traffic instead of using
grock 3 uses a less resource intensive
model so that might be another model
they actually have that is not available
here for picking called grock 3 mini
which is going to be rolling out as part
of their API soon too okay let's see how
well it follows up with a previous
conversation so just in this
conversation I asked how much did it
cost to build colaus so that image kind
of told us how many gpus were used
Colossus initially launched with 100,000
Nvidia h100 gpus in July 2024 by
February 25 expanded to 200,000 gpus see
very up todate because because it not
only uses web page search again without
turning anything on two of my favorite
things here is web search is always on
if he needs it and I don't have to
choose from a 100 different models on
top like every other chatbot is trying
to do now chat GPT is trying to move
away from that when GPT 5 comes out is
supposed to be the only one you get to
choose and then it'll figure out which
one to choose in the background to give
you the best answer this still has deep
search and thinking that I have to turn
on but at least for the search part I
don't have to pick anything and
estimated cost these gpus are typically
somewhere between like 25,000 to 60,000
says 5 to 6 billion in GPU Hardware 3 to
5 billion in Cooling and upgrades and
things like that construction and it's
saying by the time they expand out to 1
million gpus it' be somewhere in the $30
billion range and it could also create
images so we'll go ahead and test that
out just to show you a couple of
different examples create a picture of a
dog running on their moonlight
okay that's not too bad let's click on a
different one okay that's pretty good
too and you could always edit these two
and use a text prompt here to make
subtle changes to this image too and
then download it from here okay the next
thing I want to show you is content
creation specifically for x.com because
what better way to post on here than use
grock to figure out what actually works
give me the top 10 posts about the
release of grock 3 now this is going to
search the web and other people's posts
so you can see all the different post
that is pulling from you could quickly
see things this way and I could do a
simple follow-up analyze those 10 tweets
for me and give me a post that is
educational because that's the type of
content I post and here's the post that
he wrote for me it's okay I probably
needed to give it a little bit more
instruction for his tone but by default
analyzing what's there already a lot of
them were in this kind of tone XIs
Powerhouse AI is redefining speed and
smarts in just two days right things
like that I wouldn't about but the first
part of that is actually pretty good and
I could ask for 10 more like it but less
Promotional and these are a lot more
like things that I would want to post
now next I want to show you deep search
which pretty much every app now chat jpt
has this Gemini Google Gemini has this
I'm going to use this image here from
the noron newsletter which says they
just got acquired this is from today so
I going to see what's going on here to
see if he understands that part okay the
main text here we got acquired suggest
that neuron has been purchased or taken
over by another company okay so you got
the gist here now we're going to turn on
deep search and let's see if we figure
out if I give it some context about the
neuron to figure out how much things
like this sell for and I'm just going to
tell it the neuron's been around a
couple years in the AI space has 500,000
subscribers let's see what it comes up
with and deep research actually has a
whole different kind of graphic here how
long it's been thinking so far it's
going to go through a bunch of different
links right and it's going to find find
out here is a good example morning Brew
which was a newsletter I acquired for
$75 million in 2020 so it's finding all
this information here okay this took
only 52 seconds went through 90
different sources and I've used the
Google one they take much longer 52
seconds is actually really short
typically they take six seven sometimes
even over 10 minutes to do this and 83
web pages right on top around $18
million wow I definitely don't think
that's true let's see how he came up
with that $18 million because morning
Bruce sold for 75 with 2.5 million
subscribers The Hustle sold for 27 with
1.5 million
subscribers we estimate the neuron
annual revenue at 3.5 million using
Revenue per subscribers Benchmark of the
morning Brew $8 per subscriber and the
hustle
$667 okay interesting really interesting
but hey we'll never know this is not my
company we have a large newsletter too
it's not quite at half a million yet but
interesting numbers okay now I'm going
to see how it deals with any kind of
data file so I have this Amazon CSV file
this is just a data document about
Amazon stock price I'm just going to ask
it what this is first based on the data
range the low initial price and the
trading volume this data set resembles
the historical stock price of Tesla that
is not correct literally the file says
Amazon on it
so you got that wrong okay I told it
it's wrong it's Amazon and I want to see
if it could create a graph for us which
we could do inside of chat jpt it's
asking me if I want to generate it I'm
going to say generate it okay so yeah it
definitely can't create a graph it
created this instead and chat GPT a
whole lot more useful for kind of
breaking down data into visual Graphics
Claude is also really good at that so I
use Claud for that often as well okay
here I have a reasoning test and I
tested this in my last video where I
compared the reasoning model of deep
seek I compared chat gpt's reasoning
model and Gemini's reasoning model and
now we have a grock reasoning model you
have a rope that is exactly 50 ft and
the building that's 75 ft you need to
measure the height of the building using
only the rope and your own body no other
tools your 5T how can you do this
described step by step R1 deeps car1 got
a right Gemini got a right chaty PT did
not get a right and I use gpt3 mini for
that test okay so the thinking graphic
looks kind of different and you kind of
see it's reasoning here so sometimes
chat GPT hides that or gives you a
little summary you can't really see it
R1 breaks it down in very clear detail
of how he's thinking through it so I'll
let this finish up here and it is
showing you how many seconds he's
thinking for as well okay it took a 118
seconds and if I extend this out here
you could actually go through the entire
process process of how it was trying to
think through this this was probably the
longest any of the models that I've
tested out had to think through a
problem here and the answer that he gave
us is probably the most wrong answer out
of any of the models even the chat GPT
model is telling me to put the Rope at
the base of the building and somehow
extend it out to 50 ft up in the air not
how the physics of a rope works and then
climb that rope and then use my body for
the rest of the 25 ft that's missing
where the Rope cannot measure it so okay
I'm going to tell that it's completely
wrong there is something called gravity
where I can just throw the rope up there
let's see if it kind of tries to fix
itself okay now it's giving us a
different way to do it this time we're
going to go to the top of the building
we're going to drop the Rope down from
the top it's going to reach 50 feet so
there's going to be 25 ft left from the
bottom and then it says you might
visually estimate this will use your own
body as a measuring stick well that does
doesn't quite work that's not going to
be very accurate we're just kind of
eyeballing it then now Google and deep
seek gave me an answer with similar
triangles that makes a whole lot more
sense than kind of Standing On Top of
yourself or dropping down from a 50ft
rope from the top of the building oh
right here it says you have one last
remaining question for grock 3 with the
think option turned on before the limit
resets I literally maybe used it like
six times here six questions with this
turn on
wow that is a very small limit I
couldn't even really get past one
reasoning question but yeah it did agree
with me that that similar triangle
technique will solve that problem so
I'll just try a quick multiple choice
question this one every model I tested
out got a different answer okay so it
took 87 seconds this time going through
it here and let's see what we got on the
very bottom oh it's still going here oh
wow it did get it right the answer is B
so only chance gpt3 mini got this right
the first time I tested a deep seek R1
and Gemini both could not get this right
so let's say you're paying for chant GPT
is it worth paying for grock in addition
or instead and I think right now unless
you're using this for its tone and you
don't really want to train chat GPT to
write the same way or if you really want
to post on Twitter or on x.com and you
want this to utilize that kind of
analysis that it has well worth it if
you want really up toate information
this is probably the closest you're
going to get to anything to real time
because it has people's posts now those
are just random people right so if you
want more reputable sources it does also
search the web so you could do your
research that way but right now it's
just missing way too many practical
things for me for example it doesn't
have system instructions I can't tell it
to write in a very specific way chat GPT
has that Claud has that and I can't add
that here unless I put it inside of my
prompts the way it analyzed documents I
was not that impressed with it's deep
search I think it's pretty good I got
decent results a few times I tested it
but I still think I'm getting better
ones out of Gemini when it comes to deep
research and obviously there are some
big things that I use inside of chat GPT
like those custom gpts in Claude there
is something called projects that I use
all the time in Google we have a huge
context window so I could give it A500
page book so I feel like there's still
some things that this could improve on
to catch up with those other things but
on the large language model side the
speed side of things the reasoning side
is definitely come a super long way in a
very short amount of time so pretty
impressive I think it's kind of worth a
try but I want to switch from something
I'm already using I might want to add it
if I see some of those use cases for
your practical applications or for your
social media posting if you haven't
watched the other video where I compared
the other reasoning models I'll post
that here that one is very deep dive
Compares them in detail and kind of
scores them at the end too thanks for
watching I'll see you next time
